Gabe Whaley on Why MSCHF Makes Virality an Art Form

Transcripts:
(00:00)  Being creative doesn't mean you have good ideas.  Being creative just means you're human.  You have insights and you have reactions  to things that are going on.  Being creative means you're not afraid to look stupid.  Good ideas have not been done by definition.  Gabe from Mischief, how you doing, Gabe?  There he is.
(00:16)  Welcome to the stream.  What's going on?  You are live at the TBPN Ultra Dome.  What's new with you?  How you doing?  I think everyone knows you maybe just  launch into uh the the announcement this week about uh the the private military corporation  that you're starting oh you saw the twitter i didn't think anybody uh looked at that interesting  yeah yeah yeah it's uh sure sure what do we do this week? Well, we launched an agency called Applied Mischief.
(00:47)  Yep.  The agency, honestly, like to rewind, where does that even come from? And a lot of people don't  actually understand this about mischief, because probably what you see is like,  videos of people wearing boots or like press headlines or whatever but the way we're actually organized is  we are essentially a holding company of different creative enterprises based on categories so  there's like a handbag division there's a footwear division there's a fine art division  there are other divisions i can't really talk about yet but with like more bigger permanent
(01:21)  structures um well you talked about a division you can't talk about so i hit the with like more bigger permanent structures.  Well, you talked about a division you can't talk about. So I hit the.  Oh, nice, nice.  So we've been operating like that for a second now.  And to make that efficient,  there's been an internal back office that's like normal,  right, like finance, legal, manufacturing, customer support,  but also like design and marketing.
(01:46)  And that's a group that not only does design, but also applies that sort of like mischief  magic, like viral juice or whatever.  So the thinking here was we might as well open up that to external clients.  It can become a profit center, which is great.  But the other part is like maybe it can make our world a little bit bigger too,  because we're hungry for more formats.
(02:09)  We've made so much stuff over the last like six years.  What have we not touched yet?  And like, maybe we won't get sued this time around.  Like maybe there's just stuff that we can do  that's like, cool, we can make it.  Well, what seems obviously exciting to me  is partnering with global companies.  I mean, sure, I'm sure you'll partner with startups and scale-ups and things like that.
(02:32)  But what gets exciting at a certain point has to be scale.  There's so much more.  Hey, instead of selling like a thousand of this thing, can we figure out, can we partner with a company and sell?  It's like when Spike Jonze does an Apple ad.  It's like that's just not, there's something special about that, about just like giving  it.
(02:48)  It's almost like patronage in some ways, it's marketing, but it's just like, it's still  art and it's cool and it's like unbridled.  No, totally, totally.  Right?  Like the way that we look at these is like, it's not a service that we're providing necessarily.  Like there are brands and entities and culture that we perceive as cultural  material the same way artist looks at their material is like paint or sculpture or marble  or whatever like for us Coca-Cola is material give us that and we'll make something new with
(03:17)  it instead of fabricating a marketing story to sell more units that people through now anyways  right the opportunity is like there's  just so much cultural material being left on the table to make new things work so talk to me about  inbound versus outbound i feel like in that vein of like there's cultural material if you come up  with just like i have a great idea it would only work for this particular brand because the nature  of the idea is tied  deeply to the lore of that brand.
(03:47)  They're never going to think about this, but I need to, I could, the only value I could  get out of this is selling it to them.  Are you going outbound and pitching big companies and saying, I have a, I have the idea for  you, or is it more like there is an actual process where you can sit down and do ideas?  I'm going outbound right now.
(04:07)  This is a message for Gabe Newell from Valve.  We want to design your submarine.  Yeah, so let's go.  I love that.  That would be an amazing project.  That's the outbound.  That's what I want to do.  Or extraterrestrial space research organizations.  We want to design the bit that you're putting into space.
(04:24)  I love it.  We were, look, we were Fast Company's number one design  in the world in 2023.  People don't think about that  because they think about viral,  but if you actually look at like what we do,  it is unparalleled.  So let us, let's like put some stuff-  We got a space play for you with a company  that we're very close with.
(04:42)  I won't say anymore.  Okay, yeah, well, we'll talk after the stream. i have a bunch of uh i have a bunch of questions one quickly on the business  model of the new agency is there a world where you would you would uh you know the standard  agency model would be like hey let's do this project and we'll charge you like a million bucks  a couple million bucks but there's some scenarios where you could actually i imagine if it was a  one-off more like drop style you could take a percentage of of the sales even is that something
(05:11)  you would ever explore to get to really bet on yourselves and say like hey we think we could sell  like a 10 million dollars of this and we'll only price based on on success is that is that something  you would consider doing it's totally on the table and table and it's not that's not even uncommon from like  the collaboration route, like some of the collaborations that we've done  in the past have been that kind of model where it's like you make a bunch  of product together, we both invest on our own ends and then you split the cut afterwards.
(05:38)  I think what's more interesting, though, is because of mischief's position as like  this artistic entity, like in in a way like we have a  personality we have an audience and so we're actually like building a pipeline of joint  ventures yeah with big yeah that's what i was getting yeah it's not even about 10 000 units  we're talking about millions of units yeah over forever basically yeah exactly yeah like i want i want the i want  a mischief themed line of of kids toys right like i would happily buy those i i would buy
(06:12)  a bunch of those right and so that's like if you partner with the right company that should be in  the the you know my personal lifetime value would be in the hundreds of dollars and i would even pay  a premium yeah because i know it's you guys behind it yeah  um another question i have uh you know i've i've leveraged the the drops kind of model to do  marketing i was inspired uh by you guys uh uh to do marketing for my last company party round  and something that i've noticed recently a lot of companies in tech say they want to do drops
(06:43)  and it's because they're inspired by mischief and they just see like drops get attention. I want attention. One drop, please,  sir. One drop, please. One drop, please. The usual, sir. Signing up. The thing I usually push back on  and the thing I'm curious to get your opinion on is like, I think when companies think they want  to do drops, what they really want to do is true advertising  and they don't even know the difference.
(07:06)  And so like, where's that line for you?  And how often are you, you know,  would you talk to a company and it's like,  what you really want is to do advertising.  Yeah, just like a consistent message delivered  via every channel forever, might be the right thing.  Not even forever or like for a few months  or for a quarter, yeah.
(07:23)  I would take it even further.  And it's like that is the final goal, which is like get a message out into the people, get them talking, whatever.  But like the focus on the drop is misplaced.  Drop is just a delivery mechanism for something new.  What these guys are actually looking for like what they  actually want at the end of the day is how do you break through the noise and right now you can  either just make more content which honestly the roi i think is going down on that there's too much  content and not enough demand sorry that's just how it is but the opportunity is you can make
(08:02)  new things that fit within your brand parameters, that use your brand as cultural material, that are actually interesting, that are tactile, that have a story to them.  And if they happen to be ephemeral, then it's a drop.  But don't get hung up on the drop.  Just make something interesting.
(08:29)  Are ideas valuable? And if you had to kind of think about making something new,  how much is it the idea versus the execution?  Also, do you hire idea guys and then operational excellent people?  Is there like a dividing line?  Yeah, and to me, John and I will sit down with companies that we're friends with and we'll generate like 20 ideas.  It ends up being super frustrating because you're like, we're feeding you this like incredible idea.
(08:54)  It doesn't even cost a lot to do.  And if you do it right, like it could be like a million dollars of like, you know, brand value, however you want to measure that. But it feels like you can give  people these things that in your hands, they might be million dollar ideas, but poorly executed,  poorly executed, negative value. Totally.
(09:16)  I think it's like, like,  squeezing a balloon on two ends, like there's the conceptual power, and then there's the execution.  There are things where like, the concept is really high and  the execution doesn't have to be crazy. You don't need a huge budget. It's just a good idea and it's  going to work.
(09:35)  What you typically see a lot of brands do is they're afraid of good ideas because  good ideas have not been done by definition. So they lean more on the execution and you see like  large budgets and like huge bloated teams and production.  So it's sort of like now if you can dial in both that's the magic right that's but that's really hard to do because more money more risk you want to it's you just you don't you want to do risk on the concept side John to your question.
(09:59)  I don't have your idea.  people. Everyone here is an idea person. We did, I'll give you an example. A couple of years ago,  we made handbags, right? They're very expensive. The smaller they get, the more expensive they  become.
(10:16)  So we made a microscopic handbag that sold at auction for $63,000 at Paris Fashion Week at  Perel's, whatever, coronation of Louis Vuitton. That idea came from a summer intern. Anyone here  can have an idea, right?  The lawyer or general counsel joins brainstorms,  our ops lead joins brainstorms,  because being creative doesn't mean you have good ideas.  Being creative just means you're human.  You have insights and you have reactions  to things that are going around you.
(10:38)  That's it.  And then also like being creative means  you're not afraid to like look stupid.  And I think that's's a big defining trait here  because anybody can look stupid here, including myself.  Have you ever seen highly complex ideas work well  as marketing, advertising, stunts?  This is something that we end up talking about.
(11:03)  I think David Ogilvy said like simple ideas  are powerful ideas that's certainly something i've seen in mischief's work throughout your  entire career but is there some sort of contrarian or nuance to that concept i think there could be  the the line that we use here is a good idea should slap in one sentence and then slap even  harder in three and that just means  there there are layers right like you appreciate it for the headline but if you like really dig  into it you're like wait up is this thing making fun of me and do i still like it and am i gonna
(11:40)  and if i buy it am i a chump or am i a patron of the arts? Right. It's like the layers are good.  The ambiguity is good.  But at the end of the day, like from a marketing perspective, just being practical right now, like people's attention spans are so low.  And honestly, like people are just we're all like very distracted.
(12:00)  So you don't have a lot of window to like nail it.  So you do got to have that one liner, like pretty dialed in.  How, uh,  how dialed in is your crystal ball when it comes to releasing new things on  the internet? Like, do you have a,  do you feel like you usually have like a pretty accurate sense of how much  attention something will get or do you still get surprised often?  Totally still get surprised.
(12:25)  Like you or do you still get surprised often totally still  get surprised like you always you always get surprised i think um it's easy for us to fall  in a comfort zone where we're like oh yeah like this will work because what that ends up doing is  you start coming up with ideas based on a framework of what has worked we actually put in a  lot of effort to come up with formats and mechanisms that don't really fit into our existing framework that we're like, oh, I don't know if this is going to work. And is this offensive? I don't know. Are people going to buy slices of this giant foam baby that we're cutting up in Brooklyn? I don't know. They did.
(13:08)  up in Brooklyn? I don't know. They did. But no, you know, like, is there a project that you think is like criminally underrated? People are obviously familiar with the boots. They're familiar with the  shoes and the footwear stuff and some of the other projects. But what's your what's your  example of a project? You're like, ah, that's still like one of my favorites good question and the reason it didn't  really get seen as much is because to be honest we were a little bit scared okay and so you know
(13:32)  buried it in an art show that we did but uh are you guys familiar with the paradox of the ship of  theseus yes but explain it for the listener totally so it's like uh it's this old paradox  where imagine you have this like large wooden ship. And every day over seven years, you're coming up with a new piece of wood identical to a piece of wood on the ship and you are swapping it out.
(14:08)  The question is, after seven years, is it the same ship or is it a different ship?  that a very interesting question and so we decided to apply that in our own way to a sink located in the american wing of the metropolitan museum of art as one does how do you as one does yeah so we  we found the sink we did recon we uh not me i'm not i it wasn't me personally somebody here  We, not me, I'm not, it wasn't me personally, it was somebody here, I don't know their names,  but we found, we tracked down the serial numbers,  the parts, ordered exact like replica,  we ordered the exact same parts, built it here,
(14:36)  tied off the dimensions of the bathroom here  so that we could practice swapping things out.  And then over many months, we would walk into the med and do a  quick swap and leave and then the next day do it again and do it again bolt by bolt screw by  screw just an art enthusiast i just i just like art and i i go to the bathroom that's all that  big how did you get a big piece through isn't there like one piece that that so that we decided  to leave okay that we did not swap out although we had uh a plan we we we we fabricated a wheelchair
(15:13)  that could have hit it in the seat but not i'm telling you we got we got a little bit we were  honestly scared we got a little carried away we still we still did it we got everything else and uh so yeah they they they  have our sink and we have their sink and ours is now um part of like our art gallery so that's  amazing although although i believe they figured it out and they've replaced it because as soon as  we announced the art show even though the sink was sort of like hidden in all the other pieces
(15:44)  people definitely found out and there was a line in the met for that bathroom  they should have they should have sectioned it off turned it into an installation  if any of your if any of your viewers are on the board of the met uh the coolest thing you  could do right now is acquire that sink from us and put it back let's make it happen let's make  it happen army how how many millions of dollars do you think you've left on the table by not  doing crypto projects  the painful question is it like it has to be like 100 million
(16:21)  like yeah probably honestly probably probably yeah um and is there is there um  uh like there i'm sure i'm sure at some point there will actually be a way to do this like  there has to be something that makes sense like we did something back in the day with party round  where we did it was called helpful vcs where we made crypto punks for every vc and then we put  them on a website and we said you have four hours to retweet these.
(16:47)  Otherwise, we're going to auction them off.  And it was for charity.  We weren't trying to make money.  And that was one of the ways that we broke through.  And shortly after,  I think there might be something to do with crypto  in stable coins where there's not as much gambling involved,  but there might be something with crypto.
(17:03)  I don't know.  Yeah, yeah.  You have to remove. You have to make it not like a speculation.  Yeah, because as soon as you leave the,  like the people who get the joke  and then the people who don't get the joke show up  and then they're losing their life savings,  that doesn't feel good.  Whereas like if somebody, you know,  is bidding on that handbag,  like they probably know what they're doing they  understand that it's yeah they understand that look i think i think that crypto route for us is  um we've often plotted our own death and i think there's like a chaotic evil way to go out
(17:39)  yeah i shouldn't even think because now everybody's gonna know  I shouldn't even be saying that because now everybody's going to know.  Well, I think switching gears to another topic that I'm sure you guys.  So one, I don't think AI is going to take your guys' jobs anytime soon, despite it being able to maybe piece together random ideas.
(18:07)  It's so much about taste and things like that. But how excited are you to leverage that technology for some of these various plays? Honestly, TBD. And I think it's,  I will say unlike the whole crypto craziness of the last couple of years, we didn't get into that because we didn't feel like it was here to stay yet.
(18:27)  That's the truth.  When you see the herd run so fast,  it usually means they're running towards the end of a cliff.  There's a little bit of a similar sentiment right now.  That said, it is rooted in something real.  But we're not in a rush to use use it necessarily right if it's going to  be here forever we've got time like it's mischief doesn't win as a first mover if you look at all  of our work it was never about being the first to react to something or the first to like make  use of a format so we'll see we just have to. How do you think about, are there any projects, like time is an interesting variable that you can play with, right?
(19:10)  Like part of the thing with the sync stunt that you guys did is just the narrative and the story of like,  you guys were conducting this in secret for a long time.  It was like a very, and that's part of what makes it so entertaining is kind of like the  lore of what went into it.
(19:30)  But have you thought about even longer term plays, like things that  you could do over a decade or 50 years that in hindsight would just be absolutely hilarious?  And, but again, take this sort of incredible planning. Yeah honestly we are at that stage of just like our  lives and as a company now to be thinking like that right because like if you think about it we  were yeah if you if you would you know i know you guys have have a few investors have you told your  investors first thing we're working on is a 50-year stunt and you're there it's all you're  like all right buddy like why don't you put some points on the board first yeah yeah yeah but you
(20:09)  guys i feel like i've earned it now like i i you know something like a decade no yeah because like  we've we spent basically like we've only been around for the pandemic and post-pand like a  little bit post-pandemic right and all that bit post-pandemic, right? And all of that was just like, you don't know what's coming,  like live day by day, like just survive, like banks are shutting down.
(20:29)  Okay, get through to tomorrow, right?  Now we've been around for a second.  We're more well-known.  We have our existing infrastructure.  And now we really are asking the questions of like, okay,  what does that legacy look like in 10 years?  Or should we disappear for 20 years and then come back?  That would actually be the coolest thing we could do  is go dark for two decades and then come back.
(20:55)  Banger.  It's worked for other artists.  Could you do something?  So we both loved Nathan Fielder's latest aviation stunt television show.  I've heard a lot about it.  I haven't watched it.  I mean, you should.  It's one of the few people in the world that I think is executing on your guys' level in the sense of...
(21:18)  His next level.  Yeah, like one sentence pitch that's hilarious, but then the more you get into it, like the funnier it is.  But could you do something like that for like the cost of housing?  Like sort of a decade long stunt, like mischief, like mischief figures out a way to like pricey neighborhoods that would love to commission us  as an artist to install a sculpture we have a really good uh trailer park trailer  that we would love to erect in a public square  that will drive i can just see like the like the right rv like there There's this RV outside of our gym.
(22:06)  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Kind of yellow from the sun.  Like the windows are open.  Aluminum on the outside.  Yeah, Winnebago.  It could be a stunt for Winnebago Corporation.  How do you feel about the state of social media broadly?  It feels like we've gotten to a point where,  in many ways, the platforms look so similar,  but they also have their own characters.
(22:32)  Some of them are becoming Lindy,  even thinking about how durable Twitter and X have been  despite all this change.  But what's your, and do you even,  do you feel like you need to use social media or are you better off not using it and then just releasing, you know, stuff on the platforms?  Yeah, yeah.  It's definitely a love-hate relationship with the platforms, right?  Because, like, platforms, if you really think about it, they started as a way to share things that you found were  interesting and now they are mostly ways to share uh photos and videos of you talking about things
(23:13)  that you find interesting it's kind of become like less novelty based and more vanity based  just fine that's like a fundamental human instinct so i get it um  Which is fine. That's like a fundamental human instinct, so I get it.  I would continue to love to find a way to not use the platforms to disseminate information.
(23:36)  And that's kind of how we started. Our first audience portal was Venmo.  We had a huge audience on Venmo and we like had this huge phone bank uh like a chinese phone click farm and we every time we had a new project we would venmo our audience a penny and they would get that notification because that's the  most powerful notification layer in your chaching the cha-ching right i am now banned from venmo for  life well paypal let me know paypal we'll we'll have the ceo of paypal on it i think the last company
(24:10)  that came on works with venmo we'll we'll uh we'll work on it we should get this reverse this is this  is important um uh we were we were reading an article in the new yorker yesterday about this  concept of irl brain rot. The examples were the viral.  The boo-boos.  The boo-boos, Dubai chocolate,  the viral Italian sandwich.
(24:33)  We saw a few of these.  Joe Weisenthal at Bloomberg was also writing  about these kind of like viral as being something  that you stamp on your product  as a product feature almost.  And I was wondering if you're worried about the spillover  from internet slop culture into the real world,  just kind of how you're tussling with this idea  of brain rot coming into the real world.
(24:57)  I don't even know if you read the article or you have a  thoughts there but I think I saw it on Instagram yeah yeah of course yeah yeah you probably did a  front-facing video talking about it or you saw something like a front-facing video talking about  it reaction video yeah um I mean look it would I I don't know if it's a good thing or a bad thing  but like what Mischief has put out historically is kind of in that brain rot category.
(25:26)  Yeah. I mean the boots, the boots, right?  It's like absurd, absurd aesthetic. And maybe,  maybe even I could be so conceited as to say we were part of creating that  meta. No, you guys definitely that,  that it was an era of minimalism and it was like the Everlane era.  The boots are like it you know an  incredible reaction to that absurd aesthetic uh just like popping imagery off of your screen  but then the challenge the challenge with this this trend right is if you go back to minimalism  it's it actually becomes i mean maybe maybe as as like for me right i'm i i became part
(26:07)  of the mischief audience and mischief customer in my early 20s i'm in my late 20s now eventually  maybe i'd want some ultra minimalist uh you know mischief item for my home but but but but at the  same time like once you get on the on the on the maximalist track, like you're kind of on this maximalism treadmill where you just got to keep like going crazier and crazier.
(26:31)  And and, you know, maybe maybe in the Internet era, there's no turning back.  It's totally possible, right? Like we might we might have built a machine so effective that it's now our master.  And like, how do you break free from that right but um  I'm not too worried like we don't we actually don't think so hard about it we just kind of  make the things that we like and then uh if it ever stops working then do something else yeah  well I I have an idea to put out in the ether I think next time a an A-list celebrity is going
(27:04)  through a massive comms crisis  pr crisis or a scandal they should hire you guys to create something more more viral than the  scandal they just need to do another crisis to compete with that all they got to do is go to  twitter and be like send a bitcoin to this address and i'll send you two bitcoins and then they  actually do it they actually do it actually do it  genius yeah that is a get that is a one-time get out of jail free card you heard it here first just  payoffs if you yeah if you're a celebrity and you're in trouble you're you're caught at a cold
(27:35)  play concert that's the only way you can reverse the tide you'll be good yeah sure go for it yeah  awesome this is great yeah thank you it's really really great to get the update and just hear so much clarity on all these different  areas that we talk about all the time.  Yeah, we could talk for hours.
(27:53)  Yeah, we'd love to have you back whenever it makes sense.  Yeah, Gabe and I kicked around an idea that we won't share now.  We'll leverage that for your next appearance.  I can't wait for it  awesome awesome great to catch up