Protecting Viral Products: MSCHF’s Brand Protection Strategy Explained

Transcripts:
(00:00)  I'm John Belcaster, the General Counsel of Mischief.  Mischief is a venture-backed startup company art collective.  Renowned Warhol biographer, New York Times critic Blake Kotnick has said that Mischief is the most Warholian artist since Andy Warhol himself.  If Mischief were around in the late 60s when the United States Supreme Court decided the case of Dinker vs.
(00:45)  Des Moines, we would indisputably have been characterized  by the Supreme Court as crackpots.  Have you seen this one, the Big Red Boots?  It's been all over Instagram, TikTok, Snapchat, you name it.  On the feet of seemingly endless celebrities  and also influencers.  How'd you get these on?  What do you mean?  How did you get these on?  Like they're a size...  You asked, what are the origins of the Big Red Boot?  The answer, page 363.
(01:11)  Verbatim.  Mischief set out to translate the gesture  of a cartoon shape into a real life wearable object,  creating the Big Red Boot's surreal form.  This boot shape is generally familiar  on a subconscious level,  despite being specifically sampled from  Astro Boy.
(01:32)  People constantly compare Big Red Boot to footwear worn by Sonic, Mario, Bart Simpson,  or Mickey Mouse, even though these characters' shoes are extremely distinct. There is a platonic  ideal cartoon boot in the general public's head that is shaped by all of these representations,  general public's head that is shaped by all of these representations. And it is this that the Big Red Boot taps into.
(01:52)  So the origin of the Big Red Boot again was  our effort to comment on the culture, critique the culture by participating in  the culture. End of chapter one.  End of chapter one.  We created only 200 big red boots at the onset.  When we put it up for order, we were subjected to an onslaught of incoming DDoS attacks, bots trying to grab.  Our systems, you know, came down in essence.
(02:27)  We couldn't handle the load. We began trying to track infringing usage, unauthorized usage. Any time it was brought to our attention via an Instagram post,  other social media posts that found others claiming in some ways that they were the source,  I did a search for a service provider that could help us do that.
(02:46)  It turned out that Markvision was a firm that was going to suit our needs better than the  incumbents.  Now, why is that?  Given the scale of the knockoffs, it became pretty clear early on when we were doing our  dealings that we needed somebody that had, in essence, a machine to help us do it.  As proliferation of knockoffs two years hence continues to unfold,  the machine capabilities of MarkVision enable us to stay on top of that curve, so we're going to be  well served. See the iconic Coca-Cola bottle shape, and you say, that is a Coca-Cola product. You see the iconic teardrop outline of a candy
(03:28)  in a foil wrapper, and you immediately say, that's a Hershey Kiss product. Only seven months have  spanned between dropping the big red boot. And our request to the United States of America that  they deem this as so distinctive that when the outline of that boot is placed, folks  immediately say mischief.
(03:47)  So that's the challenge.  Initially, the United States of America said, nice try, mischief, see you later.  That's initially.  In a second, I could tell you how Mark Bishop came to the rescue.  But you have to ask me a question about that first. MarkVision helped us develop data on the number of such  knockoffs that were out there, who was doing the knockoffs,  and provided a robust report with all kinds of granular data.
(04:18)  And then that report was submitted to the USPTO and,  honest to goodness, became a principal ingredient of ours  to have the USPTO rethink and reorientate itself  as to how an applicant such as Mischief  could meet the threshold test  of a demonstration of acquired distinctiveness.  Whether you are a brand whose product has become viral, or you are an artist whose product has become viral without any deliberative expenditure of your own on that virality, one still might be entitled to a product.
(05:00)  to certain protections being applied.  If you need any help on that,  I would look first to the folks that we live from,  and that's Mark Bishop.